---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Project Intro and Literature
---

  This week, I started my summer research experience at Northeastern University’s Cybersecurity and Privacy Institute, working with Dr. David Choffnes. I chose to join an ongoing project investigating the user profiling practices of three of the top voice assistants in the United States – Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa, and Apple Siri. The topic is fascinating and aligns well with my overarching goal to do research that provides consumer protections for technology users. 
	My ultimate focus for this week was reviewing papers for the project and understanding what work has been done so far. As the project has been an ongoing effort, one of my main tasks was to analyze and understand a paper written by the group I’ll be working with this summer. This gave me a great opportunity to think critically about the methodology used, and how different types of black box testing and approaches might be used in the project.
	On Friday, I attended my first group meeting with the entire team, which in its entirety consists of myself, two faculty members, a postdoctoral researcher, a PhD student, two undergraduates, and myself. While the majority of the group is from Northeastern University (my home institution), one of the professors and the PhD student are from the University of Southern California. They are all apart of a research group called "Proper Data". I am thrilled to be working alongside a group of individuals with such diverse experience and am excited for the rest of the summer!

