---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Experiments and Bots
---

  This week, my focus was on running experiments and creating many, many accounts. I built a calendar to plan out my days and ensure that I could efficiently run experiments by creating enough accounts so that they were available as needed, and I could run things efficiently. However, all of that had to be reconfigured on a rolling basis by the end of the week.
	With the massive number of accounts we are now creating, the companies have taken notice and Google started to remove waves of our accounts – flagging them as bots and stating upon attempt to login that we would have to go through an appeals process to regain access. For many accounts, this happened after the first query set had already run. There is no true solution to this problem, and the only thing we can do moving forward is to keep account creation numbers in any one location low and move around frequently. For me, this will mean many more trips to cafes and libraries to use their Wi-Fi networks. While it is possible to appeal, we do not know if this will change anything fundamental with the experiments. Additionally, we cannot collect daily data while unable to log into the accounts. For now, all we can do is re-start experiments that are removed from the site.
	This development is extremely interesting and forces us to take the perspective of a malicious actor who wants to mass-create accounts for harmful reasons. It is extremely interesting to have to act in such an evasive way, but it is important that we have a large number of accounts so that we can run experiments at all. So, we will do our best to mitigate this moving forward. 
