---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Preliminary Experiments, Pt. 3
---

 Some of the Google account have finally started reaching their target labels! Though only a few have changed, this indicates that the fault may not be in our questions, but the system delay from the time of asking questions to the time of label appearance is longer. This is interesting because it is both proof that the system is dynamically changing and is already functioning noticeably different from what was last observed by the group.
  Based on what we saw by the end of the week, we made final decisions about the large-scale Google experiments. If the hypothesis that the system is now taking longer to profile us is true, we need to start soon if we want to collect significant evidence of  profiling by the end of the summer. While the priority is now to start experiments as soon as possible, I will continue to monitor the preliminaries for some time so that we have expectations for when the large-scale experiments should achieve their labels. The chosen methodology involves asking three distinct sets of questions for each of the 19 personas with one set per week and checking them daily for changes. We will use generative AI for the questions, so that any implicit machine learning biases might be replicated in the query sets, as well as manually checking them ourselves to ensure that they make sense. Each account will only have one tag targeted, and each persona will have a sample size of 10 accounts, making 190 total Google experiments. I will be taking on primary responsibility for running the Google experiments.
  For the Amazon experiments, their behavior is relatively quick and deterministic – they all achieve their tags, always. Since there is no variance in the behavior and they are quick to achieve their marks (< 1 week), we will only ask these experiments one set of queries once and use 5 accounts per persona, for 7 personas (total: 35 experiments). Another student will be performing these.
  Apple is a much tougher case. Since all profiling (if any) is done on local devices, they do not provide an interface for viewing the data (like Google), nor does an account data request yield any evidence of profiling (like Amazon). After iterating through some different ideas, we decided to use Google as a proxy observer. We will link an Apple account to a Google account, and then monitor Google’s dashboard for any evidence that data is being shared. Though less exact, side-channel experiments are the best we can do in this case. Another student will be performing these experiments.
  All in all, it was a pivotal week for the project and moving forward we will be exclusively running experiments and collecting data. 
