---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Queries
---

	In my second week as a research assistant, I began by collaborating with the other students to create and review a list of questions to be used in the Google Voice Experiments. Asking the right questions to the voice assistant is extremely important, as profiling will not occur if the algorithm is not “triggered” to profile us based on keywords or phrases unknown to us. The Google experiments will be first to run, and according to previous investigations by the group, will exhibit the most complex behavior.
	As part of my continued training, another student working on the project showed me how to create accounts set up the experiments in order to ensure we are consistent. Additionally, accounts for experiments must be created new and in a way that ensures no unnecessary data is being passed to Google (the accounts must be “clean”).  I was able to use a few old accounts to get comfortable with running the query sets and make sure that they were accurately understood by the voice assistant.
	At the end of the week, I ran the very first of the preliminary experiments to determine query effectiveness. Moving forward these experiments will have their tags checked daily, and queries will be re-run weekly for a few weeks. In addition to asking the right questions, it is also important to determine an experiment methodology – whether to repeat the queries, how often, if we need more, etc. There are many variables in this open-ended problem, and I am looking forward to examining them one-by-one.

