---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Python, Finishing Up DREAM
---

  The data collection phase of the project is almost complete! This is also my last week working full-time on the project with the DREAM program. Moving forward, I will be finishing things up on a part-time basis through August 31st to complete data collection and then write a paper alongside my teammates. We are planning to publish the paper in the Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies symposium.
  In addition to collecting data this week, I wrote several Python scripts to automate data visualization. After speaking with the professors, I obtained a “wish list” of graphs and statistics that would help us observe trends within the data. Then I got to work learning various popular libraries, like NumPy and Pandas. I wrapped all the scripts in a script with system calls and made it executable. To get updated graphs for new and updated data, now all that I need to do is download the csv files into a folder and run a single command. Automating this now will save me a lot of time in the future.
  I am really grateful to have had the opportunity to work full-time as a researcher this summer. In the likely event that I apply to doctoral programs, I feel that I am now a more competitive candidate and have a much greater degree of confidence in my research abilities. Working with a team that I could both contribute to and learn from was a fantastic experience, and I look forward to finishing up the project in the coming weeks.
