---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Preliminary Experiments, Pt. 3
---

  Early this week, the team and I finished reviewing the set of Amazon queries for our preliminary experiments. We began running the preliminary experiments but encountered a new, unique problem. Alexa will no longer add items to cart via voice assistant on devices with a non-voice-exclusive user interface. Within the Alexa smartphone app, the user is always redirected to Amazon’s website instead of an item being selected and added to the cart. As mentioned in my previous post, Amazon has been observed to not profile users until items are added to their cart. Since our investigation is based solely on the outcomes of interacting with only the voice assistants, we are unable to intervene once redirected. Fortunately, we were able to borrow a number of Amazon Echo devices from the Internet of Things lab within the institute. These devices were able to add items to cart via voice assistant and the accounts exhibited profiling by the end of the week. We continued to monitor the experiments performed via smartphone throughout the week, as they were already asked the questions, but as expected saw no labels assigned.
	I also continued to monitor last week’s Google experiments for signs of profiling. With my investigation into the privacy policies and account settings yielding no results, this became a prominent point of discussion in this week’s group meeting. It is possible that since the last investigation, Google has updated its algorithm or models to profile differently. Since we are looking into continuously evolving systems, it is extremely possible that what we see this summer may be different than past investigations. 
	With the growing public interest of generative AI, we also discussed briefly investigating Google Gemini profiling once the voice component becomes available. This is something we will likely investigate if there is enough time outside of the experiments we are already slated to perform. It would be an extremely interesting addition to the paper if we are able to analyze this new technology as well.
